# Request for Discussion

### `FL-RFD-0001`

Writing down ideas is important: it allows them to be rigorously formulated (even while nascent),
candidly discussed, and transparently shared. We capture the written expression of an idea
in a Request for Discussion (RFD), a document in the original spirit of the IETF Request
for Comments, as expressed by RFC 3, and Oxide Computers RFD 1:

> The content of a note may be any thought, suggestion, etc. related to the software or other aspect of the network.
> Notes are encouraged to be timely rather than polished. Philosophical positions without examples or other specifics,
> specific suggestions or implementation techniques without introductory or background explication, and explicit
> questions
> without any attempted answers are all acceptable. The minimum length for a note is one sentence.

> These standards (or lack of them) are stated explicitly for two reasons. First, there is a tendency to view a written
> statement as ipso facto authoritative, and we hope to promote the exchange and discussion of considerably less than
> authoritative ideas. Second, there is a natural hesitancy to publish something unpolished, and we hope to ease this
> inhibition.

Similar to RFCs, our philosophy of RFDs is to allow both timely discussions of rough ideas, while still becoming a
permanent repository for more established ones. Depending on their state, RFDs may be quickly iterated on in a branch,
discussed actively as part of a pull request to be merged, or commented upon after having been published. The workflow
for the RFD process is based upon those of the Oxide Computer RFD process, Golang proposal process, Joyent RFD process,
Rust RFC process, and Kubernetes proposal process.

## When to use an RFD

The following are examples of when an RFD is appropriate, these are intended to be broad:

* Add or change a FloatLab process

* An architectural or design decision for FloatLab

* Change to an API or command-line tool used by shipped in the FloatLab project

* Change to an internal API or tool

* Change to an internal process

* A design for testing

RFDs not only apply to technical ideas but overall project ideas and processes as well. If you have an idea to improve
the way something is being done by the FloatLab project, you have the power to make your voice heard by adding to the
discussion.

### Insights to include in RFDs

When writing RFDs for technical and core project determination, as well as other ideas, it is important to consider
various different aspects of the determination:

* Document the viable options (or a subset of options if we can easily rule some out) and the benefits and drawbacks of
  each option.

* Document our reasoning including data and references wherever possible; making it easy for our future selves (and
  those who join in the future) to understand the decisions we’ve made and why.

* Document the determination.

While not applicable in every case, we should include both non-technical and technical end-user considerations. Those
can take the form of:

#### Economic:

* What is the relative cost of this idea (and/or alternative ideas) in terms of time and effort?

* What are the implications that this will have on the project over time, both short-term and long-term?

#### Customer outcomes and impact:

* What does this idea look like in terms of how it impacts a end-users?

* What are the outcomes for end-users if we implement this idea versus alternatives?

#### Performance:

* How do the trade-offs of this determination impact performance? Is it visible to customers? Is it a regression? Are
  there any benchmarks that helped lead to the determination?

#### Security:

* How do the trade-offs of this determination impact the security of the product?

An example of this thinking can be found in Tesla’s Battery Day presentation. This was a very technical
presentation outlining all the enhancements to Tesla’s batteries that are on their roadmap.

The Tesla team took into account the materials for the cathode and anode, the cell design, factory, and integration with
the vehicle. Overall, they increased the vehicle’s range by 54% while decreasing the cost per kWh by 56% and their CapEx
investment per GWh by 69%.

The outcome for their customers is a cheaper car with a longer battery life and range. This has great impact for the
company in that now more people are able to buy electric cars since they are cheaper.

This is just an example of how to incorporate economic and customer impact into technical ideas.

Not every RFD is equal. Some have more sense of urgency and therefore might not be as rigorous as others. Some are
documentation of our knowledge thus far on a given topic. All things being said, use your best judgement when it comes
to the level of depth to devote to an RFD. Time is also of the essence, so weigh rigor and urgency to your best
judgement.

## RFD Life-cycle

### Opening an RFD for a new idea

- Create a new branch with a new RFD number, e.g. `FL-RFD-0102`. Check this does not already exist in the `floatlab-rfd`
  repository.
- Create a new markdown file in the `rfd` directory with the RFD number as the filename, e.g. `rfd/rfd-0102.md`
- Transfer any previous discussion from a GitHub Issue, or discussion into the RFD file, as not to rely external links.
- Open a pull request to merge the branch into `main` to facilitate further discussion.

### Amending an existing RFD

- Create a new branch for your changes
- Edit the specific RFD you are amending
- Open a pull request to merge the branch into `main` to facilitate further discussion.

## Changing the RFD process

The best part about the RFD process is that it itself is expressed in this RFD; if you want to change the process
itself, you can apply the RFD process to its own RFD: chime in on the discussion link or open an issue as dictated by
its current state!
