# Base Appliance Image

### `FL-RFD-0004`

## Decision

FloatLab will boot an immutable appliance image and store all of its configurations on a main ZFS volume. We are going
to build the image using the ArchLinux packages using the `mkiso` build tool. We will boot using systemd, which will
enable use to use tools like `systemd-sysupdate` to download new updates, and `systemd-boot` to boot the latest version
using A/B OS images, for reliability. We are booting the OS from a removable USB drive or SD-Card, allowing all local
disks to be used for the FloatLab [ZFS](./rfd-0002.md) Storage Pool

## Context and Reasoning

### Immutable Boot Image

This enables us to have a boot partition that cannot be changed, meaning we can overwrite this image with a new one
without affecting any configuration of the running system. It also means if we boot from USB or SD Cards, we will not be
wearing out the media with logs, and temp files.

### `mkiso` Build Tool

This tool is designed to build a bootable ISO image from a directory of files. It is very lightweight and looks easy to 
use and allows for the flexibility of injecting custom binaries, scripts and doing a post-build configuration.

### ArchLinux

The ArchLinux distro provides very up-to-date packages, and a large availability of packages via the AUR. It also has a
comprehensive wiki covering a lot of different topics. It is being used by many other projects making tooling available

## Alternatives

### NixOS

This was investigated, however, the NixOS Image is quite large, and also requires learning quite a lot about the nix
packaging and build system. It would be quite a time investment to learn, and strip down the image to its bare minimum.
We may revisit this distro in the future

### Debian

Debian is a very popular and stable Linux distribution, however, the available package versions can lag quite far behind
the latest releases, unless you using the testing distribution, which is not expected to be use in production.
It is designed to be running a mutable root partition, which will require quite a bit of work to get around.
