# Storage Technology

### `FL-RFD-0002`

The underlying storage technology we want to use for FloatLab needs to have the following properties:

* Reliability (Mirroring and or Parity protection)
* Replicate data between hosts (Replication/Snapshotting)
* Provide consistent backups (Snapshots)
* Be straightforward to understand and recover from failures

We have chosen to use ZFS as it supports the required properties and does not require additional storage layers.

## Considered Technology Options:

### Ceph/Micro-Ceph

Ceph is a distributed storage system that provides replication and snapshotting. It does provide self-healing features
and could provide high-availability storage for FloatLab, however, it is a complex system and requires a lot of
knowledge to operate. The failure modes are not always easy to recover from, and when running with consumer grade
networking and storage can lead to performance issues.

### GlusterFS

GlusterFS is user-space distributed storage that can provide replication. It is fairly simple to operate, however, it
does have tricky failure modes, and it does impose a significant performance penalty. GlusterFS is also end-of-life.
Gluster relies on an existing on-disk filesystem to work (eg XFS).

### ZFS

ZFS is a local volume manager and filesystem that provides strong reliability, excellent snapshotting, and allows async
replication via ZFS send/receive. ZFS supports creating multiple hierarchical filesystems on top of a single storage
pool. ZFS storage pools can be made resilient to hardware failures with mirroring or parity (RAID-Z1/2/3). It also
provides self-healing capabilities by automatically detecting and repairing data corruption using checksums and
redundancy.

### XFS/Ext4 + LVM + MD-RAID

XFS/Ext4 are very high-performing local filesystem options that can be used with LVM to provide snapshotting and
replication capabilities, on-top of an MD-RAID array to provide resiliency. This would allow provisioning of
high-performance reliable storage for FloatLab workloads, however, it would require provisioning storage in fixed-sized
volumes at deployment time, and resizing these volumes is complex to implement.

### Btrfs

Btrfs is a modern filesystem that provides snapshotting and replication. Although it does offer data resiliency and
self-healing, it still has some troubling reports of data-loss and experimental status for Parity protection.
