# Workload Hosting

### `FL-RFD-0003`

FloatLab will host workloads in Containers, using the open-source Docker tooling. FloatLab will expose each workload via
the web admin interface as a `docker-compose.yml` file that can be deployed to a specific host, and fail-over to a
nominated host.

FloatLab will not be operating as a cluster, see [RFD-0004](./rfd-0004.md) for more details

FloatLab will assist the user in creating, and editing `docker-compose.yml` files, by both providing an editor that
can validate the file, assist in configuring volumes, editing ENV variables, injecting sidecars and assigning networks. Floatlab will also
create a companion `floatlab-deploy.toml` file that will contain the FloatLab specific configuration, including:

- Snapshot schedule
- Primary host
- Secondary host, replication schedule, and failover priority
- Backup destination and schedule

**Reasons for basic workload definitions in `docker-compose.yml`:**

- Single configuration file for each workload
- Very common for projects to publish example `docker-compose.yml` saving the user from having to translate the config
- Contains enough configuration to deploy nearly any workload
- Does not contain complicated features like auto-scaling, auto-placement, or other complex orchestration logic

**Reasons against using `docker-compose.yml`:**

- `docker-compose.yml` is not a standard format, and is not portable between different orchestrators
- `docker-compose.yml` has no support for adding additional configuration required by FloatLab

We see this as a fair trade-off compared to using docker swarm, kubernetes, or helm-charts for workload deployment.

### Secrets Management

Each workload will allow for the storage of secrets with-in the workload volume. These can be imported into the
workload using the `docker-compose.yml` file.

### Sidecar Configuration Alternative

We could also consider using docker container labels to configure the FloatLab specific settings, however this may be
more confusing for users editing the `docker-compose.yml` file.

### Volume Management

Float lab will automatically create a volume for each workload, and a sub-volume for each container volume mount. These
can have additional settings (eg Disk Quote, Block Size, Compression). These volume paths will be automatically
translated into the correct paths, and validated after manual file editing.
