# No Cluster - Fail-over Only

### `FL-RFD-0004`

## Decision

FloatLab will not operate as a cluster. We are intentionally keeping distributed system complexity to an absolute
minimum. FloatLab is not aiming to be a replacement for Kubernetes, MicroK8s, or similar orchestrators. FloatLab is 
designed to facilitate reliable deployment of workloads

## Context and Reasoning

Floatlab should offer a predictable alternative that is easier to understand and operate, particularly when failures occur. Its focus is on workloads being extremely reliable by avoiding the associated management and configuration burden of clustered filesystems. 

Traditional clustering introduces "black box" scheduling and complex state management. By avoiding these, we ensure
that:

1. **Predictability**: Operators always know exactly where a workload is running.
2. **Simplified Recovery**: Avoiding clustered filesystems makes recovery from host failures straightforward, as there
   is no distributed state to repair or re-silver.
3. **Operational Clarity**: The system behavior remains consistent and understandable without specialized knowledge of
   complex orchestration logic.

## Strategy: Workload Pinning and Fail-over

We are choosing to have workloads run on specific hosts, chosen when the workload is created or deployed.

* **Host Assignment**: Workloads are pinned to a primary host and will run with local storage on that host.
* **Fail-over**: A second host may be nominated for fail-over. In the event the primary host becomes unavailable, the
  workload can be started on the nominated host.
* **Data Replication**: This strategy requires that workload storage be replicated from the primary host to the
  nominated fail-over host (see [RFD-0002](./rfd-0002.md)).
* **Deployment**: Workloads are defined and deployed via `docker-compose.yml` (see [RFD-0003](./rfd-0003.md)).

By utilizing this 1:1 or N:1 fail-over model instead of an N:M cluster mesh, we maintain high availability for critical
workloads without the overhead of a full cluster manager.
